src/Tools.Analyzers.NonPlatform/README.md, before:

# Analyzers

This analyzer project is meant to be included by every non-platform project in the solution. It contains several analyzers.

The individual analyzers will filter the individual projects their analyzers apply to.

# Development Workarounds

C# Analyzers have difficulties running in the IDE if the code used in them has dependencies on other projects in the solution (and other nugets).

For example, referencing: `Tools.Analyzers.Common.csproj`

This is especially problematic when those referenced projects have transient dependencies to types in AspNet (e.g., any project that has this reference: `<FrameworkReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.App" />`.

If any dependencies are taken, special workarounds (in the project file of this project) are required in order for these analyzers to work properly.

> None of this is ideal. But until we can figure the magic needed to build and run this Analyzer if it uses these types, we can only exclude those projects using the `<ExcludeFromNonPlatformAnalyzers>true</ExcludeFromNonPlatformAnalyzers>` MSBUILD property.

# Debugging Analyzers

You can debug the analyzers easily from the unit tests.

You can debug your analyzers by setting a breakpoint in the code, and then running the `Tools-Analyzers-Subdomain-Development` run configuration from the `Tools.Analyzers.Subdomain` project with the debugger. (found in the `launchSettings.json` file in any executable project).

# Updating Analyzers

After you have made changes to the analyzers they need to be refreshed in the current solution, as most of the projects in the solution are already using the Analyzers.

1. Build and pack this project: `dotnet pack` (this will copy the nuget to the `..\..\tools\nuget` directory)
2. Clear all caches for the local source (including the one at: `..\..\tools\nuget`): `dotnet nuget locals all --clear`
3. restore all packages for the solution: `dotnet restore`

Commit message:

Migrated Roslyn Analyzers and Generators to netstandard20

src/Tools.Analyzers.NonPlatform/README.md, after:

# Analyzers

This analyzer project is meant to be included by every non-platform project in the solution. It contains several analyzers.

The individual analyzers will filter the individual projects their analyzers apply to.

# Development Workarounds

Roslyn Analyzers have to be built in NETSTANDARD2.0 for them to run in Visual Studio, but this is not the case to run in JetBrains Rider.
> This constraint exists to support analyzers working in older versions of the .NET Framework, and will exist until Microsoft fix the issue Visual Studio. This is another reason to use JetBrains Rider as the preferred IDE for working with this codebase.

C# Analyzers have difficulties running in the IDE if the code used in them has dependencies on other projects in the solution (and other nugets).

For example, referencing: `Common.csproj`

This is especially problematic when those referenced projects have transient dependencies to types in AspNet (e.g., any project that has this reference: `<FrameworkReference Include="Microsoft.AspNetCore.App" />`.

If any dependencies are taken, special workarounds (in the project file of this project) are required in order for these analyzers to work properly.

> None of this is ideal. But until we can figure the magic needed to build and run this Analyzer if it uses these types, we can only exclude those projects using the `<ExcludeFromNonPlatformAnalyzers>true</ExcludeFromNonPlatformAnalyzers>` MSBUILD property.

# Debugging Analyzers

You can debug the analyzers easily from the unit tests.

You can debug your analyzers by setting a breakpoint in the code, and then running the `Tools-Analyzers-Subdomain-Development` run configuration from the `Tools.Analyzers.Subdomain` project with the debugger. (found in the `launchSettings.json` file in any executable project).

# Updating Analyzers

After you have made changes to the analyzers they need to be refreshed in the current solution, as most of the projects in the solution are already using the Analyzers.

1. Build and pack this project: `dotnet pack` (this will copy the nuget to the `..\..\tools\nuget` directory)
2. Clear all caches for the local source (including the one at: `..\..\tools\nuget`): `dotnet nuget locals all --clear`
3. restore all packages for the solution: `dotnet restore`
